# Task 01 - Create a customer account information API endpoint (20 minutes)

## Introduction

Azure OpenAI has the capacity to parse natural language and facilitate generating API calls through a mechanism known as function calling. Throughout the course of this exercise, you will create an API endpoint and then build the capacity to call this API endpoint based on user prompts.

## Description

In this task, you will load data that Contoso Suites staff has provided to you into Cosmos DB. This data contains a sample of customer account details from their Customer Information System (CIS). From there, they would like you to implement a .NET Web API endpoint exposing this customer information.

The key tasks are as follows:

1. Import the data in Customers.json into a Cosmos DB database named ContosoSuites and a collection named Customers.

    {: .note }
    > The value for DateOfMostRecentStay is in the format yyyy-mm-dd. JSON does not include a native DateTime type, so Cosmos DB stores dates as strings. For date operators like `>` or `<` to work, we need to ensure date values are stored in lexicographic order, so common forms such as mm/dd/yyyy or dd/mm/yyyy would not work.

2. Create a new environment variable on your machine called `AZURE_COSMOS_DB_CONNECTION_STRING`. This should host the connection string for the Cosmos DB resource you have created.

    {: .note }
    > After creating an environment variable, you will need to close and re-open your terminal to refresh the list of environment variables. If you are using Visual Studio Code to run this code base, you may need to close and re-open all open instances of VS Code, as instantiating a new terminal might not refresh the list of environment variables.

3. Using the Web API project ContosoSuitesWebAPI, update the stub GetCustomer endpoint to retrieve customer information based on two inputs. The first is a string called `searchCriterion` and may be one of the three following values: **CustomerName**, **LoyaltyTier**, **DateOfMostRecentStay**. The second is a string called `searchValue` and will be what we want to find in relevant documents. There are also stub methods in `CosmosService.cs` to fill in that will help you implement this customer account lookup endpoint.
4. Perform a lookup against the Customers collection based on the search criterion and search value, returning all relevant documents. Sample queries include:
   1. **searchCriterion** = `CustomerName` and **searchValue** = `Amber Rodriguez`
   2. **searchCriterion** = `LoyaltyTier` and **searchValue** = `Platinum`
   3. **searchCriterion** = `DateOfMostRecentStay` and **searchValue** = `2023-10-06`

## Success Criteria

- You have created a Cosmos DB collection named Customers.
- You have updated the .NET Web API endpoint to allow querying against the Customers collection.

## Learning Resources

- [Quickstart: Create an Azure Cosmos DB account, database, container, and items from the Azure portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/nosql/quickstart-portal)
- [Tutorial: Create a web API with ASP.NET Core](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/tutorials/first-web-api)
- [Configuration in ASP.NET Core](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-8.0)
- [Query items in Cosmos DB from .NET](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/nosql/quickstart-dotnet?tabs=try-free&pivots=azd#query-items)
- [cosmos-db-nosql-dotnet-sample-web](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/cosmos-db-nosql-dotnet-sample-web/tree/sample)
- [Tutorial: Develop an ASP.NET web application with Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/nosql/tutorial-dotnet-web-app)