# Task 02 - Create a function call for the customer account information API endpoint (40 minutes)

## Introduction

Function calling is a feature in OpenAI and Azure OpenAI Service. It provides the ability to produce structured JSON outputs based on functions you describe in a request. This allows organizations to extract key components needed for API calls from natural language communication and augment native chat capabilities.

## Description

In the prior task, you created an endpoint for accessing customer account information from Cosmos DB. In this task, you will show the power of function calling in Azure OpenAI Service by creating a chat completion that enables looking up customer details by name, loyalty tier, and most recent stay.

The key tasks are as follows:

1. Add code to the Streamlit dashboard that creates a GPT function called "customerLookup" and takes two parameters: `searchCriterion` and `searchValue`. The `searchCriterion` parameter should be an enumeration containing three values: **CustomerName**, **LoyaltyTier**, and **DateOfMostRecentStay**. This function should call the Web API project and execute a query against the customer account endpoint.
2. Add code to the dashboard that converts the GPT function into an Azure OpenAI FunctionDefinition and executes the customer lookup request. Complete the functions named `get_customers()`, `create_chat_completion_with_functions()`, and `handle_chat_prompt_with_functions()`.
3. After loading the Streamlit page, ensure that you are on the "Chat with Data" radio button option and ask the following question: "Our family is celebrating my mother's 90th birthday and we want to have that celebration in Aruba. Do you have a hotel that can accommodate 19 room rentals? And are there any reception rooms at that hotel?"
4. Continue the chat conversation with this follow-up: "What other amenities does that hotel have?"
5. Switch the radio button to "Function Calls" and then ask the question, "Which customers are in the Gold tier?" Ensure that Streamlit returns the response as a table.
6. Continue asking questions to ensure that you can successfully look up customers by name, loyalty tier, and date of most recent stay.

## Success Criteria

- You have filled out the Exercise 03 functions on the Streamlit dashboard.
- You are able to load customer data by full name, loyalty tier, and date of most recent stay when you select the "Function Calls" radio button.
- You are also able to chat regarding hotel and resort information when selecting the "Chat with Data" radio button.

## Learning Resources

- [Function calling is now available in Azure OpenAI Service](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/ai-azure-ai-services-blog/function-calling-is-now-available-in-azure-openai-service/ba-p/3879241)
- [How to use function calling with Azure OpenAI Service](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/function-calling?tabs=python)
- [Function calling examples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/openai/tree/main/Basic_Samples/Functions)
- [Azure OpenAI Service REST API reference](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/reference)

## Tips

- Since the function calling examples were released, the way to reference response objects in Azure OpenAI has changed. For example, instead of reading `response["choices"][0]["message"]`, you would reference `response.choices[0].message`.