# Task 01 - Create a speech service (20 minutes)

## Introduction

Azure OpenAI has the capacity to parse natural language in textual format. We can also incorporate Azure AI Services and its Speech service to perform speech-to-text transcription, enabling us to use the output of the Speech service as an input for OpenAI prompts. Throughout the course of this exercise, you will create an Azure AI Services Speech service and test it out in the OpenAI Studio Chat playground. Then, you will incorporate the service in your existing Streamlit dashboard.

## Description

In this task, you will create an Azure AI Services Speech service and use it in the OpenAI Studio Chat playground. You will use it in conjunction with the resort and hotel information that you uploaded as part of Exercise 02.

The key tasks are as follows:

1. Create an Azure AI Services Speech service. Make sure it is in the same resource group and region as your OpenAI service.
2. In the [Azure OpenAI Studio](https://oai.azure.com), navigate to the Chat playground and ensure that your hotel and resort data is still available to the service.
3. Use the microphone icon below the user query input box to enable speech to text using your newly created Speech service.
4. Using your microphone, speak the following request: "I've visited Aruba and Bonaire before. What other resort locations would be good options if I want to scuba dive?" Ensure that this is transcribed into the user query input box and submit the query.

## Success Criteria

- You have created an Azure AI Services Speech service.
- You are able to submit a spoken query using the Chat playground.
