# Task 02 - Add data to the Chat playground (20 minutes)

- All of this work can be done in the current Azure AI Studio (https://oai.azure.com).
- The steps to create a GPT-4 deployment are:
  - Navigate to the Deployments tab in Azure AI Studio.
  - Select **Create new deployment** to bring up a modal dialog.
  - Choose "gpt-4" from the model list and give it a name such as `gpt-4`. Note that the GPT-4 series of models is only available in certain Azure regions at this time.
  - In the Advanced options section, ensure that the Tokens per Minute Rate Limit is set to 10K.
  - Select **Create** to finalize the deployment.
- Follow these steps to create a text-embedding-ada-002 deployment as well.
- The steps to add a data source in the Chat playground are:
  - Navigate to the Chat tab in Azure AI Studio.
  - Select the "Add your data" tab from the Assistant setup page.
  - Select the **Add a data source** button.
  - In the modal dialog, choose "Azure Blob Storage" from the data source drop-down list.
    - CORS will need to be enabled for the storage account. You may do this from within the dialog, as long as you have appropriate permissions on the storage account.
  - Select the storage account you created and the `contoso-suites` storage container.
  - Choose the Azure AI Search resource you created.
  - The index name can be something simple, such as "resorts" and the Indexer schedule can be set to Once.
  - Select the "Add vector search to this search resource" option and choose your text-embedding-ada-002 deployment from the drop-down list.
  - From the Search type menu, choose "Hybrid (vector + keyword)" and select the option acknowledging that this will incur usage to your account.
- After ingestion and processing is complete, you can ask questions of the uploaded dataset.
